we know that to be healthy we need to
keep our bodies hydrated for as long as
I can remember hey did the advice to
drink six maybe eight glasses of water
every day I can tell you where that
advice comes from I mean do we really
need to drink one of these every day
this bottle contains two liters the
amount most of us think we need in a day
but there's actually no real evidence
for this in fact research suggests that
one litre is enough but what I want to
know is does it really have to be water
or will other drinks hydrate us just as
well
to satisfy my thirst for knowledge
I've come to Cardiff where we're going
to run an experiment here at this
British Gas call centre we've recruited
24 volunteers we've divided them into
four groups six people will drink plain
old water another six fresh orange juice
the third group will have coffee and the
rest will be drinking fresh milk our
volunteers will consume precisely a
liter of their particular drink in 60
minutes dr. Stuart Galloway from
Sterling University will measure how
well hydrated they are over the next
three hours in a particularly charming
way so we have a little pot that we we
needed to pee in at the start okay
need to empty your bladder and then
every hour during the experiment that's
right this experiment is all about
measuring urine output the more hydrated
they are the more they'll pee I wonder
how long before there's a queue for the
loo
while our volunteers are on their
drinking binge Stewart's going to show
me the secret of good hydration stew I
think most people like me would think
that water is the best hydrator
yeah well water is good in many
situations but if you want something
it's better than water you have to add
some other ingredients and we have a few
sitting here so we have some glucose the
sugar in a drink will help with water
absorption in the intestine so it's
actually getting the water around the
body better that all these magic
ingredients yeah and and then here we
have normal salt so it's the sodium in
here is important for helping to retain
the water in the body water milk and in
in a drink this designed to be very good
at hydrating but you'll have a
reasonable amount of salt in there then
probably a bit of flavoring add some of
that to lemon yeah lemon just to make it
taste a bit nicer and then so we're
making up about five hundred mils so
that would be a rough mix of a solution
that would be good for hydration that
solution will help it the the water be
delivered to the circulation rapidly but
also help you to hold on to that water
for a bit longer than you normally would
I'm liking your not gonna make me try
that one of these oh thank you thank you
very much so my ultimate hydration
cocktail thank you very much
actually I don't mind that tastes a bit
like a margarita I'm beginning to get
the idea that water might not be the
best drink to hydrate us after all
back out in the office how are our
volunteers getting on with the other
everyday testing coffee fresh orange
juice and milk because with milk I
wouldn't have thought that would have
gone through you quite as quick thing I
thought yet Jamila I can see by your
glorious little vessel here that your
own water how's it going and have you
been going I've been going and I
probably think that's probably the best
one I've had Jennifer how's it going
it's not too bad actually I've got
orange juice so fills you up quite a lot
do you think it's a good hydrator I
probably say waters better I prefer
water but it does go through me quite
quickly so so how are you feeling around
their blended region at the moment I
feel fuller two coffees to go to total
and after three hours and umpteen trips
to the loo it's time to see which of our
four groups is the best hydrated this
figure of shows an overview of really
the urinate boots in relation to water
and we can see if we call water 100
percent but drinking coffee wasn't any
different from water drinking the orange
juice really wasn't any different from
water either even though it looks like
it's going up slightly but drinking milk
seemed to be the best for helping to
retain body water over the time we we've
studied so milk is a better hydrator
than water yes well it's for two reasons
one is that the delivery of fluid is a
bit slower because of the protein in the
milk it slows the delivery of water to
the circulation and secondly it has
high sodium and potassium content which
helps to hold the water in your body
well my my I can't believe I'm saying
this but for sustained all-round
hydration milk in all its forms skimmed
semi skimmed full fat is the best
hydrator yes that's how it seems with
the previous study we looked at skim
milk and fill fat milk and today we've
looked at semi skimmed milk and the oil
coming out very someone I'd never have
thought milk would hydrate me better
than water and that fruit juice and even
coffee can do the job - from now on I'll
feel less guilty about my morning coffee
with a splash of milk
[Music]
you